Hey there! And welcome to Omacs, the best ocaml based text editor around!

If you're unfamiliar with Omacs/Emacs keybindings and navigation, this tutorial
is a great place to learn the basics, and get a good start. So, let's begin!


Keypresses

The first thing that we should go over is the notation for keypresses. In Omacs,
commands are generally composed of a "modifier key," like Control (C) or Meta (M),
as well as a character. Because of this, its often convenient to use the notation
MOD-CHR to represent keypresses. So, for example, if we wanted to press Control v,
we would write this as C-v. Why don't you go ahead and type C-v right now!













Congrats! You just moved half a page down. Feel like you want to scroll back up?
You can by hitting M-v (where M is the meta key, usually Alt). This should make
reading through the tutorial a lot easier and faster!


Cursor Navigation

Sometimes, however, you'll need a finer control than half page steps. For these
purposes, you are going to want to move the cursor around. This can be done
intuitively using the arrow key, but there are alternative commands that'll
probably increase your efficiency:

                                     C-p
                                      |
                                 C-b -O- C-f
                                      |
                                     C-n

Practice moving around this document using the arrow keys.

Isn't this fun?!

Well, now you have a pretty good idea of basic movement around files. For even
more drastic motions, you can always jump to the beginning or end of a file with
M-< or M->, respectively. Why don't you try those out and then come back!


And hey! If you're getting tired of this tutorial, and need to take a break,
remember, you can always close this file at any time by using C-x C-c (which
represents a sequential sequence of keypresses). So yeah! C-x C-s. Memorize it!


Basic Editing

Well, the really cool thing about file editors is that you can do more than just
move around files with the cursor. You can actually ~~edit~~ files. So why don't
we go over the basic commands to edit files.

Like most editors, its pretty straight forward to add and delete text; to add text,
just start typing! Its really that easy. Deleting text is pretty simple too-- you
can use backspace to delete text before the cursor, and the delete key removes the
character at the cursor. So that's pretty straight forward.

You can also delete the entire line below the cursor if you'd like. Why don't you
give it a try and get rid of the blatantly false line below. The command is C-k:
"Emacs is better than Omacs"

But how do you save text? Surely you'd want to save all of your hard work. DONT
use C-x C-c! That doesn't save anything! To save, you should hit C-x C-s first!

Cool, so now that you've mastered basic editing, its time to do even cooler stuff!


Using the Mark

The mark is a really helpful because it allows you to operate on a certain chunk of
text! Why don't you go ahead and set the mark by hitting C-Space. Now move the
cursor around. That highlighted portion of text is the marked area that you can
operate on. You can always unset the mark with C-g.

Ok, so what is the mark useful for? The obvious examples are copy/cut/paste
operations. If you want to copy a certain chunk of text, set the mark and cursor
accordingly, and hit M-w, or C-w to cut. The copied text can be pasted anywhere by
using C-y. Why don't you practice by cutting and pasting the line below:

"Look upon my mark, ye mighty, and despair"

(protip: if you don't want to move the cursor back and forth to the front and end of
the line to cut it, why don't you take a look at what C-a and C-e do... Pretty handy,
huh?)


Parting Shots

Well, sadly, it seems like our time has come to an end. You've mastered the basics
of Omacs, and its time for you to get out there and use what you've learned. Since
Omacs is so mind-blowingly awesome, you can even try taking a look at setting up
your own callbacks and coming up with useful commands of your own! The possibilities
pretty much endless.

Happy editing! And remember, C-x C-c to exit!















































































































Yoooooo!
